4.1 Fill in the blanks in each of the following statements:
a) All programs can be written in terms of three types of control structures: ,
 and .
b) The statement is used to execute one action when a condition is true and another when that condition is false.
c) Repeating a set of instructions a specific number of times is called iteration.
d) When it’s not known in advance how many times a set of statements will be repeated,
a(n) value can be used to terminate the iteration.
e) The structure is built into Java; by default, statements execute in the order
they appear.
f) Instance variables of types char, byte, short, int, long, float and double are all given
the value by default.
g) If the increment operator is to a variable, first the variable is incremented by
1, then its new value is used in the expression.
h) When the declaration int y = 5; is followed by the assignment y += 3.3; the value of y
is .

4.2 State whether each of the following is true or false. If false, explain why.
a) An algorithm is a procedure for solving a problem in terms of the actions to execute and
the order in which they execute.
b) A set of statements contained within a pair of parentheses is called a block.
c) A selection statement repeats an action while a condition remains true.
d) A nested control statement appears in the body of another control statement.
e) Java provides the arithmetic compound assignment operators +=, -=, *=, /= and %= for
abbreviating assignment expressions.
f) The primitive types (boolean, char, byte, short, int, long, float and double) are portable across only Windows platforms.
g) Specifying the order in which statements execute in a program is called program control.
h) The unary cast operator (double) creates a temporary integer copy of its operand.
i) Instance variables of type boolean are given the value true by default.
j) Pseudocode helps you think out a program before attempting to write it in a programming language.

4.3 Write four different Java statements that each add 1 to integer variable x.

4.4 Write Java statements to accomplish each of the following tasks:
a) Use one statement to assign the sum of x and y to z, then increment x by 1.
b) Test whether variable count is greater than 10. If it is, print "Count is greater than 10".
c) Use one statement to decrement the variable x by 1, then subtract it from variable total
and store the result in variable total.
d) Calculate the remainder after q is divided by divisor, and assign the result to q. Write
this statement in two different ways.

